docs/user/library/jdbc/h2.rst, before:

H2 Plugin
---------

Supports direct access to a H2 database.

H2 is the second generation of HSQL, a popular embedded Java database. The current database is not
a true spatial database as it does not have any form of spatial indexing.

**Maven**
   
Note that the groupId is **org.geotools.jdbc** for this and other JDBC plugin modules.

::

   <dependency>
      <groupId>org.geotools.jdbc</groupId>
      <artifactId>gt-jdbc-h2</artifactId>
      <version>${geotools.version}</version>
    </dependency>

Connection Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Parameter   | Description                                  |
+=============+==============================================+
| "dbtype"    | Must be the string "h2"                      |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| "database"  | The database to connect to                   |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| "user"      | User name                                    |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+

Creating
^^^^^^^^

Here is a quick example:

.. literalinclude:: /../src/main/java/org/geotools/data/SimpleFeatureStoreExamples.java
   :language: java
   :start-after: // h2Example start
   :end-before: // h2Example end

Commit message:

some tweaks to jdbc documentation, pointing at correct code samples
git-svn-id: http://svn.osgeo.org/geotools/trunk@38698 e5c1c795-43da-0310-a71f-fac65c449510

docs/user/library/jdbc/h2.rst, after:

H2 Plugin
---------

Supports direct access to a H2 database.

H2 is the second generation of HSQL, a popular embedded Java database. The current database is not
a true spatial database as it does not have any form of spatial indexing.

**Maven**
   
Note that the groupId is **org.geotools.jdbc** for this and other JDBC plugin modules.

::

   <dependency>
      <groupId>org.geotools.jdbc</groupId>
      <artifactId>gt-jdbc-h2</artifactId>
      <version>${geotools.version}</version>
    </dependency>

Connection Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| Parameter   | Description                                  |
+=============+==============================================+
| "dbtype"    | Must be the string "h2"                      |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| "database"  | The database to connect to                   |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+
| "user"      | User name                                    |
+-------------+----------------------------------------------+

Creating
^^^^^^^^

Here is a quick example:

.. literalinclude:: /../src/main/java/org/geotools/jdbc/JDBCExamples.java
   :language: java
   :start-after: // h2Example start
   :end-before: // h2Example end

The above will reference a database file named "geotools" located in the current working directory. 
A full path may also be specified:

.. literalinclude:: /../src/main/java/org/geotools/jdbc/JDBCExamples.java
   :language: java
   :start-after: // h2AbsPathExample start
   :end-before: // h2AbsPathExample end
   
The above examples create a connection to H2 in "embedded" mode. One limitation to this approach is 
that it only allows for a single java process to access the database at any one time. H2 also offers 
a `server mode <http://www.h2database.com/html/tutorial.html#using_server>`_ in which access
to the underlying database is made via traditional client-server TCP connection, and removes the embedded
single process restriction:

.. literalinclude:: /../src/main/java/org/geotools/jdbc/JDBCExamples.java
   :language: java
   :start-after: // h2TcpExample start
   :end-before: // h2TcpExample end
