src/main/java/org/geotools/data/store/ContentFeatureSource.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/data/store/ContentFeatureSource.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/data/util/ColorConverterFactory.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/data/util/ColorConverterFactory.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/data/util/CommonsConverterFactory.java:26:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/data/util/CommonsConverterFactory.java:26:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/feature/type/DateUtil.java:45:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/feature/type/DateUtil.java:45:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/AreaFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/AreaFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/DefaultExpression.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/DefaultExpression.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/Filters.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/Filters.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/ClassificationFunction.java:23:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/ClassificationFunction.java:23:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/ClassificationFunction.java:34:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/ClassificationFunction.java:34:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/Collection_CountFunction.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/Collection_CountFunction.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/EqualIntervalFunction.java:23:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/EqualIntervalFunction.java:23:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/EqualIntervalFunction.java:28:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/EqualIntervalFunction.java:28:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_interiorPoint.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_interiorPoint.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_interiorRingN.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_interiorRingN.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isEmpty.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isEmpty.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isNull.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isNull.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isRing.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isRing.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isSimple.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isSimple.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isValid.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_isValid.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_lessEqualThan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_lessEqualThan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_lessThan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_lessThan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumCircle.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumCircle.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumDiameter.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumDiameter.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumRectangle.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_minimumRectangle.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_not.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_not.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_notEqualTo.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_notEqualTo.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numGeometries.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numGeometries.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numInteriorRing.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numInteriorRing.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numPoints.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numPoints.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numberFormat2.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_numberFormat2.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_octagonalEnvelope.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_octagonalEnvelope.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_offset.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_offset.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_overlaps.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_overlaps.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseBoolean.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseBoolean.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseDouble.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseDouble.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseInt.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseInt.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseLong.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_parseLong.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_pointN.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_pointN.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_property.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_property.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_relate.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_relate.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/IDFunction.java:20:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/IDFunction.java:20:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/InterpolateFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/InterpolateFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StandardDeviationFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StandardDeviationFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StandardDeviationFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StandardDeviationFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/UniqueIntervalFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/UniqueIntervalFunction.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/UniqueIntervalFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/UniqueIntervalFunction.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_IEEEremainder.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_IEEEremainder.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_sin.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_sin.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_tan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_tan.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_toDegrees.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/filter/function/math/FilterFunction_toDegrees.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/CircularArc.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/CircularArc.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/JTS.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/JTS.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/renderer/crs/GeometryDimensionCollector.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/renderer/crs/GeometryDimensionCollector.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleBuilder.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleBuilder.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactory.java:25:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactory.java:25:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactoryImpl.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactoryImpl.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactoryImpl2.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/StyleFactoryImpl2.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitor.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitor.java:27:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/RescaleStyleVisitor.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/main/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/RescaleStyleVisitor.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/FeatureLockTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/FeatureLockTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/WorldFileWriterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/WorldFileWriterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/ows/SimpleHttpClientTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/ows/SimpleHttpClientTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/ColorConverterFactoryTest.java:24:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/ColorConverterFactoryTest.java:24:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/EnumerationConverterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/EnumerationConverterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/NameConverterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/NameConverterTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/PercentageConverterFactoryTest.java:7:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/PercentageConverterFactoryTest.java:7:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/TestDefaultProgressListener.java:4:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/data/util/TestDefaultProgressListener.java:4:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/feature/NameImplTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/feature/NameImplTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/feature/NameImplTest.java:9:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/feature/NameImplTest.java:9:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/FiltersTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/FiltersTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/FunctionFinderTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/FunctionFinderTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/CategorizeFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/CategorizeFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_listMultiplyTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_listMultiplyTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_offsetTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_offsetTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_setCRSTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_setCRSTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_toWKTTest.java:7:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FilterFunction_toWKTTest.java:7:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FunctionExpressionImplTest.java:4:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FunctionExpressionImplTest.java:4:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FunctionFactoryTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/FunctionFactoryTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/InterpolateFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/InterpolateFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/RecodeFunctionTest.java:20:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/RecodeFunctionTest.java:20:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StringFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/function/StringFunctionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/spatial/BBOXImplTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/spatial/BBOXImplTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/spatial/DefaultCRSFilterVisitorTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/spatial/DefaultCRSFilterVisitorTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/visitor/SpatialFilterVisitorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/filter/visitor/SpatialFilterVisitorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryBuilderTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryBuilderTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryCollectorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryCollectorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryCoordinateSequenceTransformerTest.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/GeometryCoordinateSequenceTransformerTest.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/JTSSmoothTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/JTSSmoothTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/LiteShapeTest.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/LiteShapeTest.java:21:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/PointIteratorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/PointIteratorTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/ReferencedEnvelope3DTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/ReferencedEnvelope3DTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/TransformedShapeTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/TransformedShapeTest.java:3:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/WKTReader2Test.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/geometry/jts/WKTReader2Test.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/ows/ServiceExceptionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/ows/ServiceExceptionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitorTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitorTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitorTest.java:25:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/DuplicatingStyleVisitorTest.java:25:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/RescaleStyleVisitorTest.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/styling/visitor/RescaleStyleVisitorTest.java:22:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultInstantTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultInstantTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultOrdinalPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultOrdinalPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPeriodDurationTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPeriodDurationTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPeriodTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPeriodTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalCoordinateTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalCoordinateTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalGeometricPrimitiveTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalGeometricPrimitiveTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalPositionTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalPrimitiveTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/object/DefaultTemporalPrimitiveTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultCalendarEraTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultCalendarEraTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultCalendarTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultCalendarTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultClockTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultClockTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultOrdinalEraTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultOrdinalEraTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultOrdinalReferenceSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultOrdinalReferenceSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultTemporalCoordinateSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultTemporalCoordinateSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultTemporalReferenceSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
src/test/java/org/geotools/temporal/reference/DefaultTemporalReferenceSystemTest.java:19:	wildcards: No Wildcard Imports
