docs/web/about.rst, before:

.. _about:

About GeoTools
==============

GeoTools is an open source (LGPL) Java code library which provides standards
compliant methods for the manipulation of geospatial data, for example to
implement Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The GeoTools library implements
Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) specifications as they are developed.

The capabilities of GeoTools are presented in the User Guide 
`feature list <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/geotools.html>`_.

Geotools is used by a number of projects including Web Feature Servers, Web Map
Servers, and desktop applications. For more information check out some
fascinating 
`screenshots <http://docs.codehaus.org/display/GEOTOOLS/Screenshots>`_  and
applications powered by GeoTools!

.. `Geomajas <http://www.geomajas.org/>`_ `GeoServer <http://geoserver.org/>`_ `uDig <http://udig.refractions.net/>`_ 

Open Source
-----------

GeoTools is proud to be one of the original founding projects for the 
`Open Source Geospatial Foundation <http://osgeo.org>`_. The foundation holds
the copyright on the library and is a wonderful source of assistance and
community spirit for our project. The GeoTools library is made available under
the `LGPL <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html>`_ license. The source code
is freely available in a public 
`subversion repository <http://svn.osgeo.org/geotools>`_.

Open Development
----------------

If your organization is making use of GeoTools we invite you to help set the
release schedule. Please contact us on the 
`developers mailing list <http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=4091>`_.

GeoTools follows an open development process. Our policies and procedures are
documented in the Developers Guide. Both our change proposals and 
`issue tracker <http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GEOT>`_ are open.

Commit message:

Indicate the current stable and devel version on the about geotools page; as people no longer check the wiki
git-svn-id: http://svn.osgeo.org/geotools/trunk@38473 e5c1c795-43da-0310-a71f-fac65c449510

docs/web/about.rst, after:

.. _about:

About GeoTools
==============

GeoTools is an open source (LGPL) Java code library which provides standards
compliant methods for the manipulation of geospatial data, for example to
implement Geographic Information Systems (GIS). The GeoTools library implements
Open Geospatial Consortium (OGC) specifications as they are developed.

For an overview of the capabilities of GeoTools please check the User Guide 
`feature list <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/geotools.html>`_.

Current `version <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/developer/conventions/version.html>`_ information:

* `8.0 <http://sourceforge.net/projects/geotools/files/GeoTools%208.0%20Releases/>`_: Development
* `2.7 <http://sourceforge.net/projects/geotools/files/GeoTools%202.7%20Releases/>`_: Stable

GeoTools is used by a `number of projects <http://docs.codehaus.org/display/GEOTOOLS/Screenshots>`_
including Web Feature Servers, Web Map Servers, and desktop applications.

Open Source
-----------

GeoTools is proud to be one of the original founding projects for the 
`Open Source Geospatial Foundation <http://osgeo.org>`_. The foundation holds
the copyright on the library and is a wonderful source of assistance and
community spirit for our project. The GeoTools library is made available under
the `LGPL <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl-2.1.html>`_ license. The source code
is freely available in a public 
`subversion repository <http://svn.osgeo.org/geotools>`_.

Open Development
----------------

If your organization is making use of GeoTools we invite you to help set the
release schedule. Please contact us on the 
`developers mailing list <http://sourceforge.net/mail/?group_id=4091>`_.

GeoTools follows an open development process. Our policies and procedures are
documented in the Developers Guide. Both our change proposals and 
`issue tracker <http://jira.codehaus.org/browse/GEOT>`_ are open.
