docs/index/index.rst, before:

GeoTools Documentation
======================

Getting Started
---------------

Follow the `quickstart <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/userguide/quickstart.html>`_ to get up and running with GeoTools in minutes.
  
Examples
--------

Visit the `examples <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/userguide/examples/>`_ section for 
tutorial notes and source code that illustrate some of the common uses of GeoTools.

FAQ
---

Our `faq <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/userguide/faq.html>`_ convey wisdom gleaned from the
GeoTools user list.

GeoTools API
------------

`Browse <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/javadocs/>`_ the GeoTools API javadocs online or `download <http://sourceforge.net/projects/geotools/files/>`_ them as a zip file.

Tutorials
---------

A number of `tutorials <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/tutorials>`_ are 
available online. These tutorials are written against the latest/trunk.

Latest (Trunk)
--------------
 
  * `Latest User Guide <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/>`_
  * `Latest Examples <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/examples/>`_
  * `Latest API <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/javadocs/>`_
  * `Latest Tutorials <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/tutorials/>`_

Commit message:

make use of index; apparently that is what it is for; thanks jdeolive; see GEOT-3558
git-svn-id: http://svn.osgeo.org/geotools/trunk@37046 e5c1c795-43da-0310-a71f-fac65c449510

docs/index/index.rst, after:

GeoTools Documentation
======================

Quickstart to get up and running with GeoTools in minutes:

* `Eclipse Quickstart <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/tutorial/quickstart/eclipse.html>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/tutorials/quickstart/eclipse.html>`_ )
* `NetBeans Quickstart <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/tutorial/quickstart/netbeans.html>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/tutorials/quickstart/netbeans.html>`_ )

GeoTools API
------------

GeoTools javadocs are `available online <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/javadocs/>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/javadocs/>`_ )
or `download <http://sourceforge.net/projects/geotools/files/>`_ them as a zip file.

User Guide
----------

The GeoTools user guide is available online:

`User Guide <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/userguide/>`_ )
    Tutorials, module reference and examples illustrating the uses of GeoTools.
    
    The user guide is also available for `download <http://sourceforge.net/projects/geotools/files/>`_
    as a zip file.
       
`Tutorials <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/tutorials/>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/tutorials/>`_ )
    Step by step tutorials intorducing both GeoTools and geospatial concepts for Java developers.

`FAQ <http://docs.geotools.org/latest/userguide/faq.html>`_ ( `stable <http://docs.geotools.org/stable/userguide/faq.html>`_ )  
    Convey wisdom gleaned from the GeoTools user list.
